Rewrite DnD guides (#40943)
mdn/content: files/en-us/web/api/html_drag_and_drop_api/drag_operations/index.md

{{DefaultAPISidebar("HTML Drag and Drop API")}}

Central to the Drag and Drop API are the various [drag events](/en-US/docs/Web/API/HTML_Drag_and_Drop_API#drag_events) that fire in a specific order and are expected to be handled in a specific way. This document describes the steps that occur during a drag and drop operation, and what the application is supposed to do within each handler.

At a high level, here are the possible steps in a drag and drop operation:

> - The user [initiates the drag](#starting_a_drag) on a source node; the {{domxref("HTMLElement/dragstart_event", "dragstart")}} event is fired on the source node. Within this event, the source node prepares the context for the drag operation, including the drag data, feedback image, and allowed drop effects.

Author: ```suggestion
- The user [starts the drag](#starting_a_drag) on a source node; the {{domxref("HTMLElement/dragstart_event", "dragstart")}} event is fired on the source node. Within this event, the source node prepares the context for the drag operation, including the drag data, feedback image, and allowed drop effects.
```

- `all`
  - : `copy`, `move`, or `link`

> - `uninitialized`

Reviewer: It's just really hard to read like this, because of all the code formatting and the very short DD values.

<img width="243" height="562" alt="Screenshot 2025-10-01 at 4 42 03 PM" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/f6363846-5ff0-4051-8ead-fc4f7bf74b0b" />

I was thinking of something like:

```
| `effectAllowed` value | Possible `dropEffect` values |
| --------------------- | ---------------------------- |
| `none`                | No operation is permitted    |
| `copy`                | `copy` only                  |
| `move`                | `move` only                  |
| `link`                | `link` only                  |
| `copyMove`            | `copy` or `move` only        |
| `copyLink`            | `copy` or `link` only        |
```

>  it makes everything linkable

Do you link to these items from these guides? As a general rule I'd expect it's much more likely people would link to the [reference page for `effectAllowed`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/DataTransfer/effectAllowed#value), which is linkable (and is more readable as a DL, due to different typographic and editorial choices).

  width: 100%;
}

#sources {
  grid-template-columns: 1fr 1fr 1fr;
}

#targets {
  grid-template-columns: 1fr 1fr;
}

#sources div,
#targets div {
  border: 2px solid black;
  flex: 1 0 auto;
  display: flex;
  align-items: center;
  justify-content: center;
}

#sources div {
  height: 50px;
}

#targets div {
  height: 75px;
}
```

```js hidden live-sample___drop_effects
for (const allowedEffect of [
  "none",
  "copy",
  "move",
  "link",
  "copyMove",
  "copyLink",
  "linkMove",
  "all",
  "uninitialized",
]) {
  const div = document.createElement("div");
  div.textContent = allowedEffect;
  div.draggable = true;
  div.addEventListener("dragstart", (event) => {
    event.dataTransfer.effectAllowed = allowedEffect;
  });
  document.getElementById("sources").appendChild(div);
}

for (const dropEffect of ["none", "copy", "move", "link"]) {
  const div = document.createElement("div");
  div.textContent = dropEffect;
  div.addEventListener("dragover", (event) => {
    event.preventDefault();
    event.dataTransfer.dropEffect = dropEffect;
  });
  document.getElementById("targets").appendChild(div);
}
```

{{EmbedLiveSample("drop_effects", "", 500)}}

### Custom drop feedback

> For more complex visual effects, you can perform other operations during the {{domxref("HTMLElement/dragenter_event", "dragenter")}} event. For example, by inserting an element at the location where the drop will occur. This might be an insertion marker, or an element that represents the dragged element in its new location. To do this, you could create an [`<img>`](/en-US/docs/Web/HTML/Reference/Elements/img) element and insert it into the document during the {{domxref("HTMLElement/dragenter_event", "dragenter")}} event.

Author: ```suggestion
For more complex visual effects, you can perform other operations during the {{domxref("HTMLElement/dragenter_event", "dragenter")}} event, for example, by inserting an element at the location where the drop will occur. This might be an insertion marker or an element that represents the dragged element in its new location. To do this, you could create an [`<img>`](/en-US/docs/Web/HTML/Reference/Elements/img) element and insert it into the document during the {{domxref("HTMLElement/dragenter_event", "dragenter")}} event.
```

<!-- TODO: default action of dropping files/links into browsers -->

## A failed drop

The drag-and-drop operation is considered failed if one of the following is true:

1. The user pressed the <kbd>Escape</kbd> key
2. The drop happened outside of a valid [drop target](#dragging_over_elements_and_specifying_drop_targets)
3. The drop effect was `none` at the time of mouse release
4. The `drop` event was not cancelled and the drop was not dropping text (containing a `text/plain` data) into an editable text field (see [performing a drop](#performing_a_drop))

For cases 1 and 3, if the abortion happens while hovering over a valid drop target, the drop target receives a {{domxref("HTMLElement/dragleave_event", "dragleave")}} event, as if the drop no longer happens over it, so that it could clean up any [drop feedback](#custom_drop_feedback). In all cases, the `dropEffect` is set to `none` for subsequent events.

Afterwards, a {{domxref("HTMLElement/dragend_event", "dragend")}} event is fired at the source node. An animation of the dragged selection going back to the source of the drag-and-drop operation may be displayed.

## Finishing the drag

> Once the drag is complete, a {{domxref("HTMLElement/dragend_event", "dragend")}} event is fired at the source of the drag (the same element that received the {{domxref("HTMLElement/dragstart_event", "dragstart")}} event). This event will fire if the drag was successful or if it was cancelled. However, you can use the {{domxref("DataTransfer.dropEffect","dropEffect")}} property to determine which drop operation occurred.

Author: ```suggestion
Once the drag is complete, a {{domxref("HTMLElement/dragend_event", "dragend")}} event is fired at the source of the drag (the same element that received the {{domxref("HTMLElement/dragstart_event", "dragstart")}} event). This event will fire regardless of whether the drag succeeded. However, you can use the {{domxref("DataTransfer.dropEffect","dropEffect")}} property to determine which drop operation occurred.
```
